# Chapter II - Independent Bottlers

In the beginning of the 1990’s drinking whisky, especially drinking of single malt whiskies, became popular in Europe. That’s why the independent bottlers were known in Europe (and not only in Scotland) and could be find in the shops.

In the middle of the 1990’s drinking single malt whiskies was popular in whole Europe and new independent bottlers were detected every month. Most of them disappeared as quick as they were detected and many of them released only a few bottlings. Whith this the business has changed. Before this time you had to invest a lot of money into your stock of whiskies to offer a stable range to your customers. But the buying-reaction of the customers changed to single cask bottlings and respective destillation years.This offers the opportunity for small companies to stay on the market--with only a few selected casks as their "stock".

Independent bottlers have always done experiments with maturing, bottlings at cask strength or finishing with different sorts of cask types (i.e. wine or rum casks). This was tried by independent bottlers first. Meanwhile, there are a lot of finishing-versions on the market, so you can think that all which is matured in a wooden cask is usable for finishing whisky -- and is used also. I hope, that this trend ends soon, because there wasn’t produced much which was drinkable. 

In general, independent bottlers producing a very good quality with their bottlings. Chill-filtering and additional coloring is uncommon. This comes from the changed buying-reaction of the customers, too. Independent bottlers, if they ever had used filtering or coloring, react quicker to the wishes of the customer than the distilleries.

Another trend is, that there are more younger distillations bottled as single cask whisky on the market –- even from old independent bottlers. Of course, this does not have to be bad, but is not a trend and can have 2 reasons: a) the independent bottlers are running out of money, because longer matured whiskies becoming more expensive and more rare (and there are all the companies speculating with malt whisky, also) b) they want to offer high-quality bottlings in a lower price range. 